For my final project I am interested in exploring trends in women's health factors. Health and wellness is something I have been passionate about in my free time, and my hope after Columbia is to work in the health and wellness space using data analysis to positively impact others. For the past three years I have worked part time as a group fitness instructor, with the majority of my clients being women. My perception being in the field is that women are becoming increasingly involved with fitness, with boutique studio businesses growing rapidly. I also find that with social media, we see trends of more women discussing their health online. I am curious to dive into the data to see the real story the numbers are telling. Have reported physical activity levels changed? Have nutrition habits changed? Are women in certain areas of the country more concerned with their health than others? Another factor that is of interest to me are fertility issues. If time permits I'd like to dive into some of the data available on miscarriages, hormone treatments, etc and visualize some of the trends there as well.

I'll be using data from the CDC's National Health and Nutrition Survey (NHANES). The landing page of the survey's data can be found here: https://wwwn.cdc.gov/nchs/nhanes/continuousnhanes/default.aspx

Data is primarily collected through household visits by government personnel. Questionnaires are conducted with those chosen to participate, there is also a mobile examination for the collection of health data.

The surveys include continuous data over two year periods. The data files are split out by topic: ie Demographic, Laboratory, and Dietary data files in XPT format. So a portion of the project will involve joining together different datasets in order to get all the information needed for analysis. One reported issue is that fewer Americans are taking the time to fill out these surveys, so results could not be as representative of the population as we hope.
